* The Power of Collaboration *                 -*-muse-*-

Ideas only have value when shared, not when they are kept private.  This is often misunderstood by
people that work with ideas for a living.  Our instinct is to hide ideas thinking that they are
assets that can be protected.  

Ideas are a network of connections that have no real impact in isolation.  Protection is the wrong
goal because more connections are made when sharing with others. Ideas in isolation starve to death.
But sharing causes them to grow stronger as more connections are made.

Collaboration is a great way to build trust. Relationships are built on trust and sharing ideas
demonstrates your desire to trust.  In return others instinctively trust you more.  If you allow
others to influence you, this also increases trust. Collaboration is a consistent habit of giving
and receiving.  Both of these actions grow trust.

Build stronger ideas by exposing them to multiple people. Ideas are refined as others are exposed to
your thinking.  Unchallenged assumptions are dangerous and inevitable, if you never open up to
others.

Self-deception is easy to prevent.  It all starts with an openness to share what you know. The level
of synergy that results is often surprising.   We always generate more when we work together.

A half-baked idea can easily turn into a winner by discussing it with a friend.  Get value by
collaborating with others.  You don't have to generate everything yourself.  It takes a village to
fully develop a plan, concept, or project.

Others have resources you need.  By trusting them with what you know you create a partnership that
will take you much further than you could go alone.  Make it your goal to never attempt anything
alone.  Why not bring along a companion and collaborator?  There is always enough to share at the
end when you win together.

Influence is the highest goal for ideas. Your desire should be to make the world a better place by
using what you know.  Convert weak and fruitless ideas, into powerful ideas that can change some
corner of the world.  This will only be realized by the power of collaboration.




