* Computers and complexity *                                                     -*- muse -*-

Computers are wonderful, except when they refuse to do what you want.  Understanding your frustration
with them is the key to winning this battle.

An operating system provides a standard way to use a computer.  By learning an operating system you
can accomplish many tasks in a predictable way.  For example, if you want to edit documents, or copy
files, or view photos, you just do the actions that are defined for you.

This works great for tasks that are completely standardized.  But what if the task is specific to
your life?  You don't really want an operating system to do things like send my daily report, or
write a check.

Over time, the operating systems have gotten way too complicated.  They are trying to predict what
you will want to do and manage those tasks for you.  Each task has so many variations that
everything has a bewildering set of options that you must learn in order to get your specific task
done.

This has created a huge burden for learning.  Software developers create larger and more complex
tools in each generation.  This is done with good intensions, but leaves us in a situation where we
cannot figure out how to print a document.

I bet that within the last week you were trying to do some simple task, and were completely
befuddled by some option that needed to be set.  Worse yet, there are so many settings that we have
lost control of what our computers are doing.  This creates a dangerous situation where it is very
likely that we could lose everything.

It is time to abandon complexity, in favor of simplicity.  Complexity is easy to identify.  Think
about the last time that you wanted to take a sledge to your computer.  That is complexity.  Now ask
yourself, "Is there a simpler solution that could be used?"  Has someone else solved this problem in
an elegant way?

There is probably a free solution that is easy to use, floating around out there on the internet.
Great solutions already have a huge following. If more that 10 million people are using something
then it is probably worth exploring.

Go to Google and type what you want to do.  Examples:  Free email, Sync files between computers,
Send Photos.  In five minutes you can have a solution to your real problem.  Applications that win
are the ones that solve one problem simply.

Begin your transition from dependence on your operating system.  During the 80s and 90s these were
important players.  But now they have become way too complex for the average mortal.  The next
generation of software applications will be delivered directly via the internet.

All important software applications will be written for a connected world, and run within a web
browser, or mobile device.  Of course, desktop and laptop computers will also be able to run these
applications in online/offline modes.

Get ready.  Your life will get a lot simpler soon!
