* Gmail features that save the most time *                 -*-muse-*-

End your fight with Spam.  It is simply the ugly reality that we must all deal with.  But Gmail
let's you say goodby to all of your spam problems.

Gmail is an outstanding piece of work that is freely available to anyone.  I have been using it for
the past three years as my only email solution for both personal and business accounts.

I used to spend an ennormous amount of time messing with my email folders, backups, and spam
filtering.  Once I started using Gmail that all stopped.  Over the years I have used many different
email applcations.   Each of these presented its own unique challenges that required monitoring and
fiddling with.

The most important email issue is spam filtering.  How can you reliably separate the real email from
the unsolicited garbage that shows up every day?  When I was in the corporate world, I processed
about 200 email messages each day.  Only about half of these were things that I needed to deal with.
The rest was garbage.

What makes Gmail so amazing is how the email is treated by the servers. Google is the world master
at understanding data by looking at it.  They use these techniques to create excellent spam
filtering capabilities in gmail.

A sizable fraction of all email traffic goes through Google.  This allows them to have carefully
tuned algorithms to detect spam.  Many spam generaters send to several million email addresses.
These messages are easily recognized as spam at Google.

When Gmail sees many copies of the same message or when clients flag a message as spam then the
message is removed for everyone.  This is cause for exhuberant celebration or at least a hearty cheer.

I have around 20 email addresses used for various things.  These are all redirected to Gmail so that
I can have one in-box serve all of my email needs.  I feel confident to post my email addresses
everywhere on the web since gmail does such a good filtering job.

Another valuable feature of Gmail is how your email is saved and backed up by Google.  They keep
raising the limits of space allowed for each user. I currently use about 5% of my allotment.  There
is no way that Google is going to lose your data.  I cannot say the same for other methods of storage.

Deleted messages are automatically saved for sixty days allowing you to change your mind. You can
make rules to automatically sort mail by topic.  This reduces how many messages are placed in the
in-box.  You can read the sorted folders later when you have time an interest.  It takes about 10
seconds to create a new rule.

Gmail can get you up and running in about ten minutes.  But don't underestimate the power of the
solution.  Google has created the best email solution available and provides it for free.  If you
are not currently using Gmail you are really missing out.
