* Habitual Change *                 -*-muse-*-

Improvement is a lifestyle choice

The best way to develop constructive habits is to plan for the changes that matter to you the
most. Don't settle for the status quo. But don't let someone else dictate what those changes should
be. You probably know yourself better than your spouse, boss, or co-workers do.

Decide on the changes you would like to see first.  Then figure out what habit would move you a
little closer to that goal.  The key to making changes is adopting new habits.

A habit is caused when you behave the same way so many times that it becomes an automatic response.
At that point it no longer requires effort.  Unfortunately it takes about 30-40 repetitions of
conscious effort to create the habit.  That is what make habit forming so difficult.

Try to work on one new habit at a time.  Because it takes effort you will be be much more successful
if you take one change at a time.  This means that you can realistically develop twelve new habits a
year.  You might tie them to months and plan ahead for future changes.

Another way to increase your success is to make the change as small as possible.  Remember that
making a series of small changes will lead to a huge change.  What is the smallest change that you
could be satisfied with?  What habit will get you to that change?

Go for changes that you are willing to commit to for the rest of your life.  Forget severe changes
that will create a rebound affect in your will power.  Make micro-change, but hold every step
gained.  Don't allow yourself to ever drop a new habit unless you decide that it was a mistake in
the first place.  Hesitate to commit yourself to any new habit until you are totally sure about it.

Consider adopting the 5,10,30,60 pattern.  If your true goal is to do something an hour a day, don't
start there.  Limit your initial goal to 5 minutes a day.  From 0 to 5 is huge!  It will take you a
month to create an automatic response, just for that.  Then you can extent the impact of the
activity without having to relearn the basic behavior pattern of doing it.

By starting with a commitment that is too high you are refusing to acknowledge the barriers that have
prevented you from making the change already.  Move slower, but always move forward.  Take four
months to get to the desired level.  But remember, you will use this habit for the rest of your
life.

Creating change itself can be habit forming.

