* Climbing the learning curve *                 -*-muse-*-

There are five distinct stages of learning a new skill.  Each of these is qualitatively different
than the last.  You ask different questions and have new levels of autonomy.  The context for
success varies a great deal as you progress through the stages.

These stages are related to specific skills.  Therefore it is possible to be an expert in real-time control
and a novice in web development.  Knowledge in one domain does not automatically translate into
another.  But there may be overlap of the knowledge needed for different skills.


Novice

The novice knows very little and requires a recipe to follow.  They are unable to make progress when the
current situation does not match the recipe.  This is the entry level for the first time that each
new skill has been used.  A novice works by rote, without creating a conceptual model.

A person may continue to be a novice after many uses of a skill if they have not encountered any
different situations along the way.  A person progresses by understanding how to deal with the
unexpected.


Advanced Beginner

The advanced beginner can deviate from the recipe when needed. You feel like you understand why the
recipe was created and can troubleshoot simple problems that occur.  A beginner follows the recipe,
but knows how to change it when variations are needed.

To be a beginner you have completed at least one project with this knowledge. You are in the process
 of creating a mental model for how to apply the knowledge.  This requires that you have seen
 several different variations of the task and know when to change the recipe.


Competent

A competent person in a given skill can create rules of thumb for others.  Enough situations have
been experienced that a general model has developed.  Unfortunately these models tend to be
overly simple.

A competent person believes that everything has a simple answer and does not know how to recognize
when the standard rules to not apply.  A competent person develops simple recipes and rules for
others.   They have seen several projects and are able to recognize standard patterns that apply


Proficient

The proficient person recognizes the effect of context over the problem.  They see the nuances of
any given situation and are frustrated that others can not.  Their solutions tend to embody the
complexity of the world as they see it.

The proficient person sees that solutions are tied to context. They recognize that no one rule
 applies in every situation.  They often build complex solutions to simple problems because they
 understand how much things can vary.  They reject previously create models from others as
 being naive.  This level might be the best teachers.


Expert

Experts operate mostly by intuition rather than rules.  They need absolute freedom within their area
of expertise to create.  They often have a hard time explaining the motivation for their actions to
others.  Intuition is often the highest level of reasoning.

The expert knows the answer by intuition, without following a chain  of rules.  They has used the
 skill so many times that they have lost count.  They understand how context applies in each
 situation.  They may have difficulty knowing why others cannot operate at their level, because
 everything is easy for them.
