* One Improvement to Boost Results 20% *         -*- muse -*-

Little things add up.  But big things add up even faster.  Almost everyone has some area of waste in
the way that they work.  Any activity that requires effort and does not produce a benefit is really
just waste.

Every task that you do has some amount of waste.  Spend a minute to select the three tasks that you
do most often.  What part of these tasks produces benefit?  What part is waste?

Try to quantify the percentage waste in your top three tasks.  This will give you the motivation to
improve how you do them.  Next figure how how much of your typical day is taken with these important
tasks.

Now select the task with the largest number of hours of waste.  Try to identify a small change that
will allow you to complete this critical task with less effort.  By working on this, over the next
week, you will have measurable results.

For many people, this turns out to be email communication.  Most people spend as much as 50% of
their work day reading and writing email conversations.  Your situation may be different, but the
concept still holds.  There is some primary task that you perform that is both important and wasteful.

Your productivity is tied to your ability to do this essential task. Decide to become a master at
it. If your essential task accounts for 50% of your day then a 40% improvement will result in a 20%
gain in your overall results.

You may choose to use this savings by doing a relaxing task or something fun.  By this way, fun does
not qualify as waste, because it does not require effort.  Choosing to play may be healthy because
it reduces your overall stress level.  Increasing your productivity makes room for more playtime.

It is far better to turn productivity gains into lower stress than it is to reach for constantly
increasing levels of output.  This slack time is vital for creativity and sustained, high
performance.  People that work under the crushing weight of constant pressure have short and unhappy
careers.
