* Search and Seizure *                 -*-muse-*-

Your ability to learn is far more important to you than your current knowledge.  In the past it was
possible to know everything required to make you successful.  But this is no longer true. Today it
is impossible to know everything within your own field.

The internet has produced an explosion of data for every area of our lives.  The problem that we
suffer from, is not a lack of information, but information overload.  We can easily lose the ability
to make sense of the information we are exposed to.

We often see learning as absorbing a body of knowledge and applying it to everyday problems.  But
now, the body of knowledge is so vast you could not learn it in 100 lifetimes. The only workable
answer is to be more selective about what you need to know.

Decide what is most important and concentrate on that.  This applies to your leisure reading as well
as learning for your job.  All material that you consume must be either amusing or useful.
Ruthlessly eliminate low value sources, in favor of ones that give you what you really need.

List the categories of your primary interests, both personal and professional.  Select the top two
resources in each of these areas.  Forget the rest.  Follow the highly informative and interesting
sources of great quality input.  Life is too short to wade through boring and irrelevant info.

Stop trying to remember things that you can look up.  Become an expert in using Google searches to
answer questions in less than a minute.  Try this...  Find out what the escape-velocity from the
moon is, or the sunset tomorrow.  Time how many seconds it takes you to find the answer. Why
remember such things when they can easily be discovered so quickly?

Become an expert in finding things rapidly when needed.  This will give you more mental energy to
focus on the "Why" questions.  Stored knowledge is mostly about the "What" questions.  Spend time
thinking about the types of information that you really need, and how you can make
better decisions.  Figure out to apply the knowledge that you have to simplify your life.

Focus on integrating knowledge rather than acquiring it.  Examine your life for areas of ongoing
frustration and put your problem-solving skills to work. Shift your focus from gathering and storing
knowledge to making needed improvements.  Seize the day!

--- 

Reply to this message if you wish to eliminate future email messages.  Your privacy is important
to me.
