* Embracing the Unfinished Book *                                              -*-muse-*-

You can use incompletion to drive progress.  Many people would like to write a book but are
overwhelmed at the size of the task.  The may be preventing you from starting some great project.
Here is an idea that may get you over that hump.

The are several problems with traditional writing. Each project is simply too big.  If the minimum
book size is 100 pages then you have nothing to use until you have invested several hundred hours.
This may work for the Victorian age but can not possibly keep up in the internet age.

Today we live in a world of blogs, wikis, tweets, sound bites and a thimble size attention span.  No
one wants to read a giant book on anything.

We can decry the fall of civilization, or we can use this trend to our advantage.  In days gone by
to be an author meant that you had to be the absolute expert on something.  Today, it simply means
that you have something interesting to say.

Consider writing something short.  But make it useful.  If you can say the same thing in fewer words
then do it.  This is better for your readers.

It is also better for you.  Consider writing the main ideas for your book in a series of short
articles.  Imagine 21 articles that outline your main topic.  I use a series of increasing levels of
detail (1 overview, 4 chapters, 16 discussions). If you write a single 300 article for each of these
you can be finished with your first pass in about fifty hours.

At this point you have written your first book. Assuming that you have something worthwhile to say
then readers can start enjoying your work right away.  Or you can wait for someday when you have
time to write a "real" book.

Now comes the unfinished part.  You can easily double the size of each of the articles to 600 words
from 300.  Add a deeper discussion of the main idea of each article by adding a couple of examples
or illustrations.

By doing this work after completing the initial pass on your topic, you are able to allow people to
continue enjoying your work. 

If you were to flesh out a single article each week you could have your first pass done in half a
year.  Your more detailed pass could be done within a year with a small but consistent investment of
time.

Have you been putting off writing, because the task seems to large.  If so, then decrease the size
of the payload and get it started soon.

