* How to Avoid Your Mid-life Crisis

Is a mid-life crisis in your future?  We all know the signs... a growing
disatifaction based on a realization that our true dreams are unreachable.  This
breeds a feeling of desparation and a desire to take unreasonable risks.

During our twenties we spend most of our effort trying to gain a measure of
success as adults.  This is a serious struggle for survival that every person
must face.  We have won this struggle when we feel that we are a true adult and
that we have a plan for the future that will work.

In our thirties most of us set about building a family and a carreer.  This is
major effort requiring us to make sacrifices for the people that we love.  We
gladly make those investments because we see that the stakes are so high. We
face tremendous barriers during this time to our success. But we know it will be
worth it in the end.

Our forties are spent building on our previous successes and recovering from
past failures. Major challenges within our families, careers, and relationships
loom everwhere. Most people begin to seriously question whether it is all worth
it.  The primary challenge of this phase of life is fighting the resentment that
comes from believing that the needs of others have taken precident over ours.

The crisis comes as we see that our dreams are passing out of reach.  This is a
serious situation that causes us to want to throw everything away and start over
again with a self-centered plan to meet our own needs.  Many as they aproach
fifty, get a new spouse, house, career, develop new addictions and abandon
everything that they have worked so hard to achieve.

This is the natural path of our life.  Fortunately, Jesus provides a different
path for those who are willing to follow him.  On this path we daily lay down
our dreams, to follow him.  We don't have our dreams stolen by the demands of
others.  Instead we offer them as a sacrifice to our king.

This places us in a very different emotional place.  We willingly live a life of
pursuing God.  The demands of others must take a back seat.  His goals and plans
for us are more important than the needs of others.

As we go through our lives we can always be confident that God's plan for us is
still on track.  The circumstances that we have are totally consistant with his
plan for us.  The assumes that we are actually following his plan.

In this way we never get to a point where we feel the need to throw everything
away and pursue our own fullfillment.  Start today, don't delay.  No matter what
age you are, you must begin pursuing God's plan rather than your own.  This is
the only way to avoid a nasty crisis later.
