* Contentment, Simplicity, Generosity *                 -*-muse-*-

These three words have been constantly on my mind recently.  These are the core issues of everyday
life.  This is where our vague desire to follow God is tested, and where spiritual transformation
takes place.

We live is a society that is obsessed with getting more.  We need more money, more time, more
recognition, more stuff, more control over others, and even more control over God.  This
self-centered orientation lies at the heart of our unhappiness.

Let's face it.  How much is enough?  If you are honest, you probably believe that you could be happy
if you had 20% more than you have right now.  But the horizon keeps moving.  

If you are discontent now you will remain discontent until Jesus transforms your desires.  There is
no point at which the false gods actually satisfy us.  The issue exists inside our skin.

When we trust in the wrong things, then it is not possible to be at peace. No amount of success will
make us feel approved, and no size of bank account will make us feel secure.

We actually long for Jesus, but don't know it.  He is our only hope.  He is the provider, sustainer,
healer, and the security that we need.

God is calling us to accept his truth about ourselves and his role in our lives.  This leads us to
humbly acknowledge him and surrender the control over our lives.

This drama plays out in every area of our lives. Materialism compels us to work long hours and
build complex plans to scratch the unscratchable itch.  We place demands on those around us to meet
our every need, while at the same time being unwilling to sacrifice for their benefit. Ultimately,
we poison our relationships with our unending thirst for more recognition and control.

Jesus offers us freedom from this vicious cycle of destruction and dissatisfaction.  God always
meets each true need we ever have.  He is the one who brings people into our lives.  He grants to
each of us the opportunities aligned with his plans.  He leads and guides us on the right path to
take.

Being in control is only an illusion.  God desires to replace this illusion with his actual
presence. He will give us the provision, security, recognition, and peace that we need.

This is the work of spiritual transformation.  God changes us from the inside out. The truest
measure of the Spirit's work is seen in how we live out Contentment, Simplicity, and Generosity.
