* Familiarity Breeds Complacency *                 -*-muse-*-

After hearing scriptures a hundred times the words lose their edge. We stop listening to the
underlying truth of the what God is saying to us.  This is especially true if we are using an
outdated translation with language that we would never use in the hardware store.

I've recently begun a practice that helps me to hear the bible afresh.  The practice is fairly
simple but the results have been profound.  You may also find this practice useful to you.

Select a chapter of the bible that is a favorite.  Read each verse and put it into words that you
would use with a high school student.  Try to convey the same meaning without using any of the
original words from the passage.  In order to do this you must grapple with what is really being
said.

Next, apply the passage to your life situation.  How is the Spirit speaking into your family,
career, schooling, or personal life?  This is more than an intellectual exercise.  It involves
responding emotionally to what God is speaking about your specific life.

The third step, is to personalize the conversation.  Write the passage out as a personal letter from
Jesus to you.  Recognize that he has been speaking through this whole process.  Receive this
communication as an expression of his love.

Consider writing out each of these three stages.  Read and edit the passage while listening for the
voice of the Spirit. The goal is not to provide an accurate translation, that can stand up to
scholarly criticism, but rather to encounter the living God.

Limit the scope to one or two paragraphs.  Let this fully soak in for several days before continuing
on. You may find this so helpful that you process long passages of scripture.  But remember, that
this is about depth not breadth.  The goal is to hear from God on a personal level.

As you hear God speaking directly and personally to you, the results can be dramatic.  What once
were vaguely encouraging passages, become deeply personal expressions of love and commitment.  I
hope that you find this practice as useful as I have.
