* Release Control *                 -*-muse-*-

Many internal conflicts I experience are related to control.  As God is molding me into
his image, he is uncovering these issues.  I need to embrace his work.

The issues of contentment, simplicity, and generosity are primarily about control. Contentment comes
from reliquishing control of expectations.  Simplicity is focusing only on essential things in
order to eliminate everything else.  Generosity is the natural consequence of a lifestyle that is
open to others.

Each of these areas are interrelated and require a sacrifice of control. My life is not really
about me.  It is about bringing glory to the Creator of the Universe.

I continually struggle with performance.  I have a deep emotional need to achieve. This becomes
unhealthy when my performance is the basis for acceptance. This is just a control issue diguised as
needing a sense of purpose.

What is motivating this drive?   Is it a true desire to honor God, or do I believe that I can
generate my own emotional feelings of self-worth?

Contentment in achievement is a major issue for me.  My natural tendency is to ignore everything
that has already been accomplished to reach for the next set of goals.  Even the largest successes
have an emotional half-life of a single day. If I were to win a Nobel Prize then after a week I
start to wonder what I have done for the last week.

Simplicity means having smaller goals. I feel that each new goal has to be added onto all other
existing goals. Every day I feel the burden of building this giant pyrimid of interconnected goals.
Simplicity is saying "No" to this self-inflicted disease.

Generosity is shifting the focus from meeting my need to those of someone else.  Instead of doing
tasks that meet my goals, I am focusing on things that serve the needs of others.  Generosity is the
natural behavior resulting from this transformation.  Jesus gave freeley to me so I can pass the
blessing on.

All three of these areas touch me at a place of emotional neediness. I long for the Spirit of God to
set me free from the unrealistic demands that tend to dominate my life.  This is a essntial
transformation that will let me become what I was truly intended to be.
