* Working And Praying *                 -*-muse-*-

One of the ironies of following Christ is the idea of having a partnership with God.  Some believe
that spiritual success is the result of hard work.  They can earn acceptance with God and victory
over sin by shere force of will. 

Others feel that everything important will happen supernaturally.  This does not require any effort
on our part but is a miraculous provision of God.  Both of these viewpoints fail to recognize the
partnership.

When Jesus calls disciples to follow him, there is act act of both his will and ours. We respond to
God by aligning our expectations with his purpose.  These are not naturally aligned and it
forces a decision.  Will we say, "yes", to his purpose or attempt to get our own way?

This is not a one time battle, but one that we must fight constantly.  We must repeatedly lay down
our expectations in order to accept God's ultimate purpose for us.

As we know the Spirit at a deeper level we are transformed by the experience.  Our expectations and
desires truly begin to align with God's plans for us.  

Spiritual transformation is the process of our hopes and dreams being aligned with God's purpose.
The very thing that Jesus wants for us is the thing that we want for ourselves.  As we are
transformed the conflict that we have with God is greatly reduced.

When our wills become aligned with God's will then we can wholeheartedly pursue our dreams.  We know
that because we want his purpose then we can boldly continue to fullfill our wildest dreams.

The most important part of prayer, is to discover God's will for us, not just to express our
desires.  We are wanting to align our will to his, not the other way around.

Too much of our prayer is focused on getting God to do our thing.  But as we seek to do God's thing,
we discover the peace that comes from being aligned with God's ultimate purpose.

It requires humility to admit that our desires and expectations are misaligned with God.  But true
transformation begins by seeing the gap and accepting God's right to call the shots.
