* Daily Habits Determine Your Destiny *                 -*- muse -*-

Many people decide that they need to lose weight and try out a severe
diet program. Frequently, they are able to lose a large amount of
weight quickly.  But, when the heat is off the weight reappears. They
are worse off than when they started.

The same dynamic appears in every area of your life.  You can
drastically change your spending habits, improve your relationship
with your spouse, spend more time with your kids, or work less. 

Large gains can be made in each one of these areas by implementing
drastic measures. But, these large gains can quickly turn into net
losses if not sustained.  Next time you need a change why not try my
patented "Change Slowly System".

There are just three simple steps that make it work.  
    1. Pick a change that you would really want.
    2. Select a meaningful step.
    3. Do it for the rest of your life.

Start by selecting the thing that you most want to change.  This must
be something that you feel really motivated about.  Otherwise, it is
not worth the stress of trying to change.  

Avoid acting on the opinion of others.  Only work on those areas that
you are ready to invest your heart and soul into.  Wait on everything
else.

Now, it is time to begin moving. Pick a goal that would be a
meaningful step in the right direction.  Your initial impulse will be
to pick a goal that is too aggressive.

Reduce your goal to baby-step that you can achieve without trying that
hard. In order to sustain life-long sustainability you will select a
stream of changes rather than a single large change.

This is the hardest step in the overall process.  You must have goals
that are both meaningful to you and do not require much effort. 

Because your goal is now small enough, you will start today.  From now
until the end of your life you can do this one small change.  There is
no Mardi Gras, because there is no need for one.  The thing you picked
is easy so you can do it now and the change will stick.

This whole process is aimed at long-term change rather than short-term
change.  It is intended to get you to think about the sustainability
of what you do rather than the burst impact.  I've read the story many
times and the Tortoise always wins over the Hare.
