* What does it mean to thrive? *                 -*-muse-*-

Dr Prof Tips is about helping you thrive in the modern world.  But what does it mean to really
thrive?  It is best if we take the most holistic definition possible. Thriving means to be
successful, content, and happy.

In order for this to happen there are a number of different aspects of our life that need to be
cultivated. Let's focus on the five most important areas.

 * Personal well-being 
 * Relationships
 * Knowledge
 * Actions
 * Problem-solving

Personal well-being is essential to growth in any other area.  If you are suffering physically,
emotionally, or financially then there is no room in your life for other areas of growth.  All
development takes energy and you need margin in order to begin.  Once you start then you can draw
strength and encouragement from making progress. Before you focus in other areas, do an honest review
of you personal well-being.  It is the foundation that you need to build upon.

You can not be truly happy unless your relationships are thriving.  In a Facebook world the term
friend has all but lost its meaning.  Rediscover the true meaning of friendship. Cultivate your
three closest friends. Share more and take greater risks with them.  At the same time, consider
ways that you can extend your more casual relationships and maybe go a little deeper with them.
Consciously avoid the irritating people in your life as much as possible.

Knowledge is an important asset.  It is something that you totally control.  But be intentional about
what you learn.  Figure out what is most critical for you to know and completely master it.  I
believe that you stop learning when you die (and vice-versa).  Knowledge is one key that will open
doors for you in your career.  Manage it, don't coast.

Take Action. Every day you have opportunities to do things. Make the most of these by carefully
deciding what you will work on and what you will stop doing. Schedule your leisure activities as
well so that you can get the most from your playtime.  Focus on what to do today and put everything
else on another list.  It is amazing what happens when you limit your time horizon to the very near
future.

Become a problem-solver.  Figure out what is not working and fix it.  Treat everything in life as a
puzzle that has a better solution.  You can make small optimizations to your life every day.  Each of
the small changes adds up into an enormous impact over time.

Spend a few minutes for a personal review.  Rank yourself in each of these five areas.  In your
strongest area, how can you go even further?  What is one step you could take to develop your
weakest area?

--- 

Reply to this message if you wish to eliminate future email messages.  Your privacy is important
to me.
