* Invest 20% in your future *                 -*-muse-*-

Investing in the future brings huge rewards. We can learn lessons from great companies about how to
invest our time.  By default, everything will be invested to get short-term results.  But this will
create serious problems over the long run.

It is important to satisfy the immediate demand for results. But getting results quickly is not
enough for sustained performance. Short-term gains must be backed up by long-term investments.

Great companies maximize potential over many years. In the early days of HP, the founders would
encourage employees to work on projects that were completely outside of their regular
responsibilities.  Google is now famous for this same practice.

What is true for companies is also true for every individual.  Thinking longer-term is thinking
bigger. The most productive time spent, is the time spent thinking about what might be.  Learning
new skills and creating experimental projects is the way that you make yourself relevant in the
world of tomorrow.

In order to do this work, you need to build margin into your work life.  Without margin short-term
thinking takes over. Constant demand for immediate results must be balanced by taking a longer
view. If you are not spending about 20% of your time working outside of the immediate demands of
your job then you will soon be in trouble.  

One irony about working on the bigger picture, is that it makes you more productive in the
short-term as well.  Some of your ideas will have immediate application. What starts as a
hair-brained idea, may end up becoming a tool or a new way of doing things that meets a need right
away.

I am not suggesting that you disappoint people that are counting on you, by working on things they
don't care about.  But you need to be building something that will last beyond this month. Create an
agenda for projects that will help you learn a new skill.  Build a new tool, create a new process,
or automate something that requires your time every day. 

Make a list of things that are worth your time. What do you dream about doing? What do you wish you
knew? How can you give more to others? What will be the next big thing?  Plan out one special
project to complete each month.  Make is count.  Your future depends on it.

I often hear people say that they are not allowed to work on anything that is beyond the immediate
demands of the project.  This may hold if your job is completely repetitive.  But if you are a
knowledge worker of any kind, then you are paid to think.

No permission is needed for you to act professionally.  Focus on results for the long term.  Plan
your time so that you produce the most value over the next year.  Recognize that this is different
than creating the maximum benefit this week.

Use good judgment to select the outcomes that will matter to your employers. But do not wait for
permission or instruction about how you should build the future.

Ultimately, if you need to, pay for the investment yourself.  As a software consultant, for the last
5 years, I have chosen to limit work for clients to four days a week.  This allows me the luxury of
having a day each week that is devoted to learning new skills, building special projects, and doing
work for non-profit organizations.

Most people can easily justify doing these projects as a part of their normal job expectations.  But
if you need to, then it is worthwhile to invest your personal time.  Another benefit of this
approach, is that you are completely decoupled from anyone's expectations for you.

If you make this investment, I assure you that you will never look back.  This will quickly become
your most enjoyable and productive work experience.
