* Perils of Multitasking *                 -*-muse-*-

We live in a world that demands our attention, loudly, forcefully, and without end.  Our answer is
typically to try to respond to as many of the demands as possible.  But this is a perilous course!

Yesterday, I found myself overwhelmed by several demands for my attention.  Without even thinking
about it I started answering serveral emails, checking a calendar, looking up a phone, number,
monitoring a test that was running and trying to fix a defect that a previous test revealed.

Suddenly, I was aware that the stack was seven levels deep.  Stop this train I want off!  The
quality of work greatly decreases as your attention is drawn into multiple acitivities. In my case,
this is what finally alerted me to the blunder of attention deficit.

We live in a busy world, with constant demands placed on us.  We can not do anything about the rate
that the demands are made for our attention.  But we can manage how we choose to respond to those
demands. 

Think of a person that you work with that is incapable of managing the demands on their time.  They
thing that they are working on at this moment is related to the last conversation that they had.
Over time you can not rely on them to do anything in a predictable way.

Many of us feel that multitasking is the only way that we can respond to constant demands.  But
there is a more effective way to service inputs from others faster.  Make a list of everything that
demands your attention.  It is very quick to write down a phrase: "buy tires", "write TPS report",
"hire hit man".  But doing so will allow you to remember what needs to get done without breaking
your concentration.

When you finish one task go to your list to pick out the next action needed.  Select the one with
either the greatest urgency or importance.  Attempt to complete any activity before starting on the
next one.

Many studies have shown that working on several things at once is less effective that working on
them serially.  What surprises me is the level of energy that goes into switching between the
contexts. When switching between multiple tasks you will consume 10-20% of your attention for
switching (depending on the complexity of the task). 

This means that if you are trying to fit two tasks into one brain you will be able to put 35-40% of
your attention on each one. For three tasks this decreases to 10-25% each.  Think about this.  You
may be spending over half of your total mental energy before you even begin to do the actual work.

I believe that multitasking is the number one source of stress in both our personal and work lives.
Here's a challenge.  Try single-tasking for a single day. It is hard but, once you succeed, you will
never go back.

--- 

Reply to this message if you wish to eliminate future email messages.  Your privacy is important
to me.
