* How a book changed my life *                 -*-muse-*-

Occasionally, I come across a book that has such innovative ideas that it causes me to rethink
everything that I am doing.  Last year I encountered just such a book.  As a writer, software
consultant, and inventor I work in a world of ideas.  Books are one of the richest sources of
learning available.

A good book presents new ideas not readily available anywhere else.  So many books now are simply a
rehash of things that many others have already said.  The ideas must apply directly to my
situation.  Some books have great ideas that are just not useful to me.

A really excellent book can be read and understood at four different levels.  In the first hour you
can skim a book and understand the big idea that is presented.  Some books are only worth this level
of investment.  Go to the library or book store, and conduct this first pass skim before you purchase
it.

The first three chapters of a non-fiction book (or sometimes the first chapter of each section)
contain the details of the subject.  They offer explanation, examples, and insight on how to apply
the big idea.

Some books are worth reading "cover to cover".  These books are crammed with insights that you must
ponder and digest over a period of time.  Spend at least 10 hours on a 200 page book if it is worth
it. But in return, demand that you get at least twice as much benefit as the effort that you invest.

Finally, there are some books worth analyzing in detail.  I study these books and start new
projects to experiment with the ideas presented.  I read, reread, study, make notes, and discuss
these topics with my friends.

This last year, I encountered "Pragmatic Thinking and Learning", by Andy Hunt.  From the moment I
started reading it, I knew it was special.  He describes how the brain works, and how you can use this
understanding to become more effective at everything.  

Several discussions within the book sparked new areas of research for me.  I launched a project to
implement an information management system, that I call the "exterior brain". I was inspired to create
an open source publishing platform, called "my book online".  I began writing seriously to share
ideas with others. 

There was also a discussion in the book about how our thinking is colored by the generation that we
are part of.  This led me into reading about the different generations currently in the US, and
the different ways of thinking that they have.

There is also a section that discusses the stages of learning specific skills.  This is useful when
thinking about how teams of people work together.

I cannot guarantee that you will have the same experience with this book that I did.  But I am
certain that if you read it you will think differently as a result.


