* Books are the fastest way to learn *                 -*-muse-*-

This may seem either controversial or obvious to you, depending on your recent experience.  There
are a lot of alternatives to help you learn.  To learn something new, try to find the most effective
resources.  Reading for enjoyment and to learn are two very different activities.

Creating a book requires a great deal of time compared to developing resources on the internet. The
power of the internet makes it is very easy to produce material.  This may be great if you are
tracking breaking events from large numbers of sources.  But it can also be a liability.  Much of
the information written for the internet is of low quality.

Books, on the other hand, require hundreds of hours of deliberation.  A blogger can write an article
of 300 words as fast as it can be typed in.  It may take someone about 10 minutes to share their
thoughts and opinions with you.  You may be relying on the accuracy of content that does not have
much real thought behind it.

The very fact that books are hard to create means that serious thought and effort have gone into
creating them.  Presumably, they are worth the effort. If what you really need is to learn a new
subject in a short period of time, your best bet is a great book on the subject.

Books can be read many different ways.  In learning mode, consider spending an hour skimming
the entire book.  This will give you the big idea.  That may be all the you need.  Congratulations!
You just read a book in an hour and learned a new subject.

In your second pass study the table of contents.  Figure out what questions you still need answers
for.  Pick out a few subject areas that to explore in more detail.  Read these areas and forget the
rest.

Your third pass is to understand how to apply the information.  You should prepare a set of
questions.  How can you apply this knowledge on your own?  Where do you disagree with the author?
What might you have added?

Study these areas in detail.  Focus on areas that give you the most benefit in the shortest time.
Make notes that would let you teach someone just like you.  Create a short description of what you
learned.

After you have studied the content, the table of contents and index are excellent ways to jump right
to a specific topic.  The table of contents gives you the high-level view of everything that the
author says. I always read this first when looking for the general structure of topics.  The index
is a great reference tool for finding specifics.

Most authors write multiple books to share their body of knowledge.  Follow your favorite author.
If you resonate with what they say, you are likely to enjoy other things they write as well.

--- 

Send me email if you wish to unsubscribe to future messages.  Your privacy is important to me.
