* Time Budget *               -*- muse -*-

Trade time for Money

Your life can be measured in time.  We each have a fixed but unknown amount of it.  How you invest your
time reveals your true values.  Those things that are valued most will always get the most amount of time.

You can also trade money for time.  It is actually two currencies of the same commodity.  You invest
time in your career in order to obtain money that is spent on things you value.

In some cases you choose to limit work so that your time can be invested more directly in other
things.  Either way there is a direct conversion between time and money.

Hours of Enjoyment / Hours of Work

As an example, assume that you can earn a net amount of around $50/hour. Then investing an hour
should be worth around $50.  A good meal at a restaurant is worth an hour of work required to pay
for it.  Paying the airline $25 to check your bag is well worth the half an hour of work to pay for
it.  Paying house cleaners to save four hours of work is also worth a $200 cost. 

Spending an hour trying to save $10 of cost is clearly not worth it.  Using this kind of time math
will help you to avoid situations that are really false-economy.  It something merely takes time it
has a real cost associated with it.  Of course, if you don't have a job then it is difficult to
fully set a value on your time.

This is a simple ecconomic calculation based on the desired purchases and how much work is required
to pay for them.  This calculation also scales for larger investments.  A weeklong vacation in
Hawaii costs about $4000 (or 80 hours of work in our example).  This is also the amount of time that
is enjoyed by the vacationing couple.

Comparing Differing Purchases

A new car may require 700 hours of work, while a clunker could be purchased for 70 hours.  On the
other hand, you must consider the time invested as a result of driving an unreliable car.  Will it
cost another 600 hours of pain over the life of the car?

This same approach is useful while setting your goals.  It is all too easy to make time commitments
that you can not pay for.  Many people practice budgeting of their money.  Consider doing a budget
for your time.  

For some this may seem to be over analytical.  But, for others this will give you a fresh
perspective on a familiar topic. Try it out and see what you think.
