* Better tools save time *                 -*-muse-*-

You can save yourself many hours by focusing on improving the tools you use.  At the beginning of
2011 I set a goal to double my productivity within the year.  I measure productivity by the results
that I am able to produce for each hour of work invested.

By June I had already reached my goal.  That is a whopping 1000 hours saved each year!  I was
astounded at these results and I want to share the lessons learned with you. You may not be able to
achieve these exact results, but you should be able to save at least 500 hours within the next year.

The secret is in using a systematic approach to productivity.  Start by analyzing what you do in
your work and eliminate the biggest waste that you find.  There are four basic ways to eliminate
waste: stop doing things that are not needed, automate everything possible, use tools that minimize
steps, and reduce rework.

My results over the last year were primarily tied to the software tools that I am using.  These
tools alone will save me around 1000 hours every year from now on.  A one-time investment in learning
new tools may also benefit you.  It really depends on your situation.

My most important tools saved me significant time over their competition.  I tried to estimate the
benefit of time saved by each of my top tools: 
 Linux (400 hours saved/year),
 Emacs (250 hours saved/year), 
 Git (200 hours saved/year), 
 Python (150 hours saved/year),
 Gmail (100/y)

These savings do not come without investment.  Some tools require a lot of investment to gain the
productivity benefit. You need to understand the specific opportunities that you have before trying to
select tools that are right for you.

Select the tools that match your situation and spend any effort required to master them.  Expect and
demand a hundred-fold payoff for your time. This will pay off for you throughout your lifetime.  If
you are looking at learning a tool that may only be useful for a couple of years then limit your
investment.  

On the other hand, tools that have already been popular for 10 or 20 years are likely to be around
for another 20.  These tools have already proven their worth to many others.  Select these and
invest any amount of learning required to use them well.  These will be the tools that you will be
using five years from now.
