* Work is a stream, not a bucket                -*- muse -*-

It is far easier to control the present than worry about the future. I often have conversations with
people where they tell me that they have too much work to do.  They are unable to do the things they
value because there is a large bucket full of items needing attention.  This thinking is based on a
faulty assumption.

Many believe that emptying the bucket will produce a state of tranquility and peace.  The reality is
that the bucket refills itself automatically.  Let's look at why this is the case.

The bucket represents our desire to accomplish certain goals.  We set our goals based on everything
working in our favor.  In the perfect world, I plan to accomplish certain task over the next week.
Unfortunately, we don't live in a perfect world.

Two things are working against us. First, the expectations of others creep into our plans.
Additional unplanned tasks are added to our own desires and goals.  We originally set our plans to
accomplish what we thought should be done.  Later we must adjust our plans to make room for new
demands.
 
Second, our expectations are always optimistic. As we do a task we learn more about it.  Our
expectation was based on full understanding, but we find that we only had a partial understanding
initialy.  Typical tasks may easily require three times the amount of time that we originally
expected.  As we work on each task we get distracted and this causes further delays.

So what is the solution?  Do we create a firewall that prevents distractions and responding to the
needs of others?  A far better solution is to adjust our own expectations.  We realize that work is
a stream; it constantly replenishes itself.  As tasks are removed from the queue, new ones are
added.  You never get done; you only make progress.

Our focus should be on the results that we do achieve, rather than the items left in the stream.
Each task that we work on should be the most important and urgent task that we can work on at the
time.  This way we have absolute confidence that the items left undone are less important.  It is
far easier to control the present than worry about the future.


