* Personal Review Questions *                                       -*-muse-*-

[[Index]]

[[QUOTE]]

In the last day, what gave you joy and the most sorrow?
Who has given you a taste of God's love?
What activities in your life seem to draw you to God? 
What activities in your life seem to pull you away from God?
When and where are you most likely to be aware of God's presence? 
When or where are you least aware of God's presence?

How would you describe your relationship with God today?
What is prayer like for you? 
What kind of prayer is most appealing to you?
When do you remember first thinking about God?
How do you experience temptation in your life?
What do you do really well? 
What do you think you are gifted to do?
What is your soul longing for today?
How is it for you when you read scripture?
When are you bored with your spiritual journey?

How is your view of God changing because of your recent experience?
What person embodies how you perceive God to be acting in your life right now?
How would you like God to help you at this moment?
What do you think the Spirit of Jesus might be whispering to your spirit?
How are you being changed by relationships or circumstances?
How would you most like God to touch your inner being, at this time in your life?
What is your deepest longing?

How would you like to experience God in the next few weeks?
Do you sense an invitation from God?
What would you like God's invitation to be?
How do you hope your relationship with God will change as a result of your time together?
What is the first step on the next phase of your spiritual journey?

When do you feel anger, fear, perplexity, or frustration?
How does your body respond when feeling anger, fear, perplexity, or frustration?
What situation triggers strong emotions?
What area or situation most needs you attention now?
What feelings arise as you think about a difficult situation?
When have you had these feelings in the past?
Are you feeling glad, mad, sad, confused or angry about this situation or relationship?
What adjective describes how you feel about the person most on your mind?
What adjective describes how you feel about the event most on your mind?
Sit for a few minutes before God with some concern you have.
Where do you feel anger or frustration right now?
What would be helpful to you right now?

What's the one thing you could do to increase your enjoyment of God?
What is the single biggest time waster in your life and what will you do to change it?
What is the most important thing you could do to improve your family life?
For whose salvation will you witness to and pray for this coming year?
What is the one good new habit that you want to start?
Who do you most want to encourage on a regular basis?
What is the most important purchase you will make that will benefits others?
What is the one thing you need to do to improve your prayer life?
Who will you go to for wise advice when you need it?
Which spiritual discipline do you need to practice the most?
What is the one thing you could do to increase God's presence in your work life?
What is the most significant trip you want to take this coming year?
What kind of skill do you want to learn, revive, or improve?
What will you do to discover, develop, practice, and use your spiritual gifts?
What is your most important financial goal for this coming year?
Will you commit to reading the bible over the next year?
In addition to the Bible, which book do you most want to read?
What is one simple thing you could do to improve your marriage?
What is one new way you could be a blessing to your church leaders?
What could you do to enrich and ensure your spiritual legacy for generations to come?
What area of your life needs simplifying and how could you accomplish that?
What new area of ministry are you going to try?
What is one blessing of God that would change your life the most?
What could you do to make a lasting difference in your neighborhood or city?
In what area of your life do you need to experience the most growth?
How can you spend more quality time with your children and their friends?
What is the most important investment you will make in each of your children and grandchildren?
What is one decision or action you will make that will matter the most in 10 years?
What is the most helpful new way you could strengthen your church?
What is the most humanly impossible thing you will ask God to do?

